Next up a really important topic.
Changing styles using JavaScript so we could select one element or 20 elements and potentially change
their color their background color their font size we could hide them.
How do we do that.
How do we manipulate CSF properties using JavaScript and the dump.
Well there is a couple ways I'm going to show you one in this video.
It's called these style property.
So every element that we select has a style property.
So why don't we select one.
How about this H1 const H1 equals document that query SELECT YOUR H1 in my CSX file that I have here.
I've given all H1 ones a color of purple and a font size of sixty pixels.
So if I look at H1 dot style I open this up.
We get this massive object but it looks like everything is completely empty.
This is not telling me what the color is.
It's not telling me font size express.
If I find color on here or I could just type it.
Where are you.
C O L O.
Oh come on.
Here we go.
Empty string.
Why is that happening.
It seems like this should be a representation of the styles on the element.
But if I do H1 dot style dot color as we just saw nothing is there.
So this is the first really important thing to understand about the style property we can use the style
property to change colors or styles we can change any of those properties and they will be affected
on the page but if we're trying to use the style property to read existing properties to read existing
styles it won't work unless those styles are defined in line which is not really a good idea.
We normally don't add inline styles if I go to my H1 I can style it inline.
I could say color is teal I don't know why I'm doing quotes again.
There we go.
Color is teal.
This is not normally what we'd want to do.
We want to separate our styles from our HMO but if I do it this way and I refresh the page now I select
the H1 again and I look at H1 dot style dot color it's now set to teal so the style property only contains
styles that you have set inline which normally will be pretty much completely empty for every element
that you look at but we can also change the color or any of these styles here using the DOM using javascript
I can now make this is there a color called Orchid yes there is great color name we get this change
it actually changes it and if we look at what it does on our element it now has the inline style color
is orchid if I go select something else like how about just this paragraph here.
So we'll do const p equals document query selector and then I'll just delete this we want the first
paragraph.
So if I look at P it's that paragraph right there if I do p dot style dot now let's do color again color
on this one will be white okay.
So I have it highlighted so you can see it but obviously it's not easily visible right now so why don't
we change the background color and the way we do a background color in CSX is that straight background
dash color.
Now this is another very important part of working with styles in the DOM in JavaScript the property
names are camel cased so there is no p dot style dot background dash color it doesn't exist we'll get
Oh well I misspelled it but this does not exist because in JavaScript this is not a valid identifier
you can't name a variable or add an object or a property to an object called B dash w that won't work
syntax error so that is why all of the style properties in JavaScript are camel cased so I could do
P that style dot background color camel case it set to an empty string because we haven't actually set
an inline style all of the styles we have are coming from our style sheet and I don't think we have
a background color anyway but if I were to set it to black now that change takes effect and if we look
at the style attribute of the style property we'll see that every single property name is camel cased
if it's more than one word.
So anytime you see animation delay or animation direction or anything like that in CSI s those would
be dashes in between kabob case animation dash delay in JavaScript in the DOM it's all camel case it
has to be otherwise they wouldn't be valid names for properties OK.
So again this is only inline properties that we can read out but we can set any properties we want but
you have to remember that what you're doing is adding a property to the element itself adding CSX in
line and there's nothing really wrong with it but there's a better approach if you have a bunch of styles
that you want to add if I wanted to add like 10 different styles to one of these elements or to a bunch
of elements with this option using the style property I have to do it one at a time Pete style that
background color equals black pete style what color equals white Pete style dot font size you can do
that one camel cased equals and about 40 pixels so that's three separate lines and if this was something
I was doing frequently for some reason probably not these styles specifically but on a Web site we often
have groups of styles that we want to apply to different elements and we keep sort of a similar theme
we would usually make a class and that's what we'll get to in just a bit there's another alternative
for styling so this is the style property it's useful it allows you to update styles one at a time everything's
camel cased if needed but it is not a good way to figure out what the current styles are on an element
unless you happen to write all of your styles in line it's not going to have the values you expect so
there's another way we can get all of the actual styles and that's what we'll see in the next video
what I'll end up with here is just showing how we can use a loop and manipulate styles instead of a
loop as well so let's change these styles of all the allies on the page I'll come over to my file my
JavaScript file select all the allies document that query selector ally actually I want query SELECT
you're all we'll call this concept all allies and then we can loop for let's ally of all allies.
Why don't we set.
Ally.
That style DOD color to be some color.
Why don't we make a little array of colors actually.
So we'll do concert colors equals and then red orange yellow green blue and purple.
How many allies do we actually have.
One two three four.
We have six.
All right.
So we have seven colors here.
Yeah.
No.
Six.
Okay.
I'm a moron.
We have six colors.
That works as long as we have six allies.
So if I want to access one of these colors and use it to change the corresponding ally using a for loop
a for of loop is actually not going to help me much because I don't have the index.
I want to take the first ally out of the six and set it to be red.
The second Ally said it to be orange.
So I would probably use a regular for loop here or why don't we mix it up and use for each instead all
allies dot for each.
And then we'll write an arrow function.
And remember in our area function we have two parameters that we can use for for each.
We have the elements and the index.
Why don't we just start by console dot logging L and I see what we get.
Okay.
So we're getting the ally and then the index here.
Now I can use that index to access that color.
So const color we'll just call it color equals colors of I.
And that should now give me a color based off of the index of the ally that we're working with.
So we get red orange yellow green blue and purple.
So I'm using a for each just to mix it up and then in here we'll access the element which I think I'll
rename to Ally.
It's a better name for that parameter.
Ally does style dark color equals this color.
Let's try running it.
There we go.
Red orange yellow green blue and purple.
So why did those styles win out.
Where if I refresh the page.
Well I have two comments out this code before they already had a color.
Some of them based off of a class and a class is relatively specific right.
Why did these styles went out.
When I changed the color there was a conflict.
This is teal and I made it red.
Why did Red win.
Remember this is all inline styles.
And anytime you do inline styles it is extremely specific.
It's actually added to the element itself as we've seen like we have here and that is going to win out.
It's going to beat any class declaration you have for any class styles.
So that's why those styles end up applying.
All right.
So that's the style property every element that we select.
We can read existing inline styles only using the style property but we can set any properties or any
styles that we want as long as we use the correct camel case when applicable.
And it will actually add an inline style.
So it's not changing our style sheet in any way it's just inserting an inline style declaration into
the individual element already.